zabin wrote:
"I wasn't sure how to contact you but I noticed your still active here on BFW forums. Your pixel art is the best and your work inspires me. I've built up my pixel skills making derivatives of your work and now I'm designing my own concept art and then pixel it from there."

Cool! Yeah, I'm still in wesnoth's irc channel - I work heavily on a game called "frogatto" right now (it's got an irc channel of its own (#frogatto), as well as a website and some barely-used forums.) I tend to be a bit reclusive just out of interest of getting work done.

zabin wrote:
"Your trees here are excellent! I studied how you use the colors and drew my own tree dot by dot in the same style you did here."

Looks very nice. :) 

zabin wrote:
"Anyways, my question is- since my new tree I drew that was inspired by your huge tree, could I make it openly available on OGA?
When it comes to licensing- I'd put my work CCO but getting credit is also nice. What license do you like your art under? A few years ago I did post some of your work on OGA while adding to the wood tileset. I meant to get your permission first but I was a complete newbie at the time. Please forgive me. The woodtileset is cc.by.sa but it'd be best if cc.by, GPL, were added too right?"

I'm really not a big fan of the GPL anymore, since I've gradually learned it has the really darkly ironic quality of restricting people's freedoms. I've been involved in a bunch of different projects, and I've run into numerous situations where we can't use something with the GPL because it's got an incompatible license, or we can't use something GPL because we're incompatible, and ... just from a layman's perspective, it just seems completely absurd. I mean, we're all part of this movement where we're supposed to freely share stuff and pool our efforts, and having one of our own tools - not some external problem imposing on us, but something we, ourselves actually created is perhaps the most significant obstacle to using art I've found on shared-art repos? That just seems like something we shouldn't abide - if we made it, and if making it was a mistake, we ought to be able to clean up our own mess.

The other angle on this is that .. at this point, I don't think the free-culture movement needs legal protection. I think that contrary to the fears of early members of the movement, open-source is proving itself to be so effective as a development method that it's got natural evolutionary fitness over closed-source without any legal assistance. Genetically speaking, it's actually a dominant allele, not a recessive one.

So, these days, I favor releasing things under the CC0 license, which has no compatibility qualms, ever. Period.

I *like* attribution; I appreciate it if folks give me credit. So please do - I just don't want to "legally require" it because that starts making things incompatible with certain licenses.

zabin wrote:
"Let me know how you feel about what license you want the wood tileset under and if my new tree is more then just inspiration."

I think it's very much a derivative work, but I think that's awesome.  :D I really care about my pixel-art technique that I've been crafting for the past several years, and seeing someone follow it like a textbook is the highest sort of praise and validation I can ever get. I don't want it to die with me - I want it to be learned, and passed on, and spread. And added to, and grown, etc, etc.

I'm of an old-school mindset (think Da Vinci) that largely doesn't believe in the idea of plagiarism as a social malus. Plagiarism as a bogeyman crime people are afraid of committing has enormous "chilling effects" on learning, exploration, and honestly does some really unhealthy things to the artistic community. "Plagiarism as a bad thing" was a fairly new idea that came out in the "romantic movement" a few hundred years after, say, Da Vinci, and really left some bad things in our culture. I'm glad that the free-culture movement is working against it.

I think pixel art as a whole - across the industry - could be done much better, and I encourage any steps people take to learn it as a craft and study how to do it - I view it the same way as computer code.
